# OpenBasement

Revolutionary app for people who don't like social media and all kind of networks because they have no friends.

This application will let them achieve social-media like experience but without all information noise, people spamming
random content all day long, advertising, duck-face pictures and proofs of social retardness.

Decision to deliver to basement dwellers only allowd us to perform amazing optimizations - we have no backend! As we
have no need to send data to server, we could provide you the best experience without cost, so no advertising and no
spying.

Also, no friends.

### Functionality

* adding notes to yourself,
* marking meetings with people,
* posting you yourrent mood,
* analysis of your post that only you can see in a side bar,
* support for [emojione](http://emoji.codes/) and [markdown](http://commonmark.org/),
* no advertising,
* no spying,
* no other people poking around,
* you can fork it on GitHub and tweak to your heart's content.

## Running your Basement

### Requirements

Node and NPM installation is required beforehand if you want to run local/develop you own version.

Otherwise just access [openbasement.github.io](https://openbasement.github.io).

### Building prod setup

```bash
cd openbasement
npm install
npm run dist
cd docs
python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000 # just to check if it works
```

### Running dev version

```bash
cd openbasement
npm install
npm start
```

### Reseting data for test purposes

Call in the console:

```javascript
window.resetState()
```

## How model works

State is stored as simple JS object:

```javascipt
{
  journal: [],       // list of entries (actual model)
  events: [],        // events (generated from whole model)
  interactions: {},  // interactions (generated from meetings)
  notifications: [], // notifications (generated from  whole model)
  ui: {}             // ui-only state
}
```

`journal` is treated as append-only database. To a degree we can think of it as event log allowing us to do some event
sourcing.

`events`, `interactions` and `notifications` are generated from `journal` using `analysis/Analysis` functions. They have
to stay pure and generate all data from scratch each time model is updated, so that we would be free to modify and
improve analysis without any need to migration. With `model/State` there are functions didicated to merging old analysis
data with the new one.

`interactions` is just an object where we store info about Basement Dweller's meetings, `events` and `notifications` are
list of objects generated by checking whole `journal`. `notifications` differ from `events` as the have `read` field
which allows us to hide read messages. `events` on the other side show only last few messages.

`ui` store UI-specific data, like which modals are being visible or not. They are completely unaffected by model.

## Customizing your Basement

You can start by changing color sets and fonts by editing `styles/Palette.scss` and `styles/Fonts.scss`. Then you can
start looking around `components` and `styles/App.scss` to tweak visuals even more.

If you are interested in tweaking analysis of your mosts you can edit `analysis/Analysis` - just remember to keep
functions pure.

If you have more experience with react and redux than I do (not much of an achievement), you can do whatever you like.
